>> Will Sentance: Sam, go ahead now.
>> Sam: Two points, first of all,
divide by 5 in your simplified diagram,
you're passing in a 5, it should be a 25.
>> Will Sentance: [LAUGH] Thank you, Sam.
>> Sam: Secondly, I want to understand,
is there a rhyme and
reason behind why you ordered it as input,
then function, versus function then input.
>> Will Sentance: Because the way reduce
works is the first thing you pass to
the reducer function, the function
that combines from two to one,
from two to one, the first thing
you pass is always the accumulator.
And the second thing, and you want reducer
to be able to work on any scenario,
but it does lead to you
kind of having to flip.
Which is a bit of a weird feeling right?
But it's because I want to combine,
I had a combine function,
always has the first thing be
the thing we're building up.
And the second thing be the element
of the array that we want to combine
to become one.
When we do so inside, the second
thing is now visibly on the page.
I think it's run on the first thing and
so it looks, it's flipped.
>> Sam: Okay, but it sounds like you're
describing the order inside the reduce.
I'm asking about the run
function on input.
>> Will Sentance: But where does
run function on input get replaced,
where is it replacing?
>> Sam: It's it's the reducer.
>> Will Sentance: It's filling in what
what placeholder in reduce, Charles?
>> Charles: Into combine.
>> Will Sentance: Into how to combine.
Meaning, Sam, I'm preset I can't,
I mean, look.
I could theoretically fit my reduce around
but that's how the built-in reduce works
so I'm sort of being consistent
with how that one works.
So remember run function only gets
run in place of how to combine so
it had better behave the way
that how to combine expects it.
Those sort of clarifications,
people, everyone benefits from.
I wanted to show you one little
thing here, look at this.
All I've done on this next slide here,
is I've added an extra function just so
you know, give you the emphasis.
On, by the way, in case you wouldn't hear
there because the mic wasn't on Seth.
Seth asked, what if my function
has what's called multiple arity?
One of my functions here
expect more than one input.
The way this is set up is much
like Sam's question was saying,
I'm pre prescribed how these
functions are going to be run.
Reduce is just going to take them
with my how to combine rule and
running function on one input.
There ain't gonna be multiple inputs,
here.
I mean if one of my functions here
multiply by two, add, it's expected two or
more inputs, it's gonna break, entirely.
And that is where in the end
functional programming techniques,
all the fancy stuff you hear about.
Monads, partial application, carrying.
All of them really come down to trying to
solve the problem where if you're listing
out functions, little blocks of
code to auto run one after another.
And you're not calling them yourself,
you're relying on constructs
like reduce to call them.
You need to make sure that they
behave in a very predictable manner.
You need to make sure they have
exactly one input, one output.
You need to make sure if
they take in an error,
that doesn't break your
entire flow of data.
And that's really gonna be what everything
else in functional programming is about,
trying to ensure the consistency that
I can just list off, line of code,
line of code, line.
Let's see that, then.
And so look at this, all I've done here
between these two slides is changed
what I've done here
between these two slides.
I've added an extra function, but
what I've done is I've moved my list of
functions from being in a block like that,
which will do, all the time.
I put them with white space
line by line by line.
So you can really feel the way that
functional programmers might write this.
Which is that each line Is
an isolated independent
task whose only output is
passed via inside of reduce,
passed to the next function.
Whose only output is only
consequence of R3 is the 25 which is
passed directly to the very next line and
the very next line only.
Next line, you know.
Divide by 5 is a line of code, in a sense.
And we've now put them all on one line.
People, this is the dream.
All of the middlemen newer to it,
seeing this, I'm like, hold on,
am I running this right?
But once you get used to this structure,
being able to list out my tasks by their
human readable name and
my starting value, and
then know that I'm just gonna go to one
after another after another after another.
This makes my code
profoundly more readable.
This is the essence of
functional programming.
Now, I will tell you this, we don't use
reduce directly to be able to do this.
We use a function called Compose, or Pipe.
Both of which pass function
through one by one by one.
What are they doing inside?
And I went and
checked that round of documentation.
I went and checked how they built it.
What are they doing inside?
They’re running our good friend, reduce.
They’re running our list of functions
through, running our value through our
list of functions and
they’re reducing them together.
>> Will Sentance: Even compose,
the most significant programming
tool in functional programming.
This is what's going on behind the scenes.
When you go into that function
premiere interview, and they say, so
how do you compose functions up?
And you say, well, for me, it's all about
reduction of each function with a value.
That is exactly what it's doing.
All right, people.
So, function composition.
>> Will Sentance: Easier to add features.
This is the essential part
of functional JavaScript,
being able to list out our
individual units of code by name.
Bump, bump, bump, 1, 2, 3, 4 by name.
And have them run one by one as
independent self contained pieces whose
only output is in the next line.
More readable,
reduce here is often wrapped in compose.
To say, compose, like you compose
notes into a musical melody.
You compose individual units of
code Into a full task into a fully,
just like you would have ten lines of code
in the function now you got ten functions
that form a composed,
larger collection of functions.